there's a pretty good chance that by now
you have seen or heard rather this sound
clip Laurel Laurel when you play it some
people hear the word Yanni and others
hear Laurel and some people including me
hear both I heard Yanni at first but
then started hearing Laurel and now I'm
just stuck
hearing Laurel in today's video I'm
gonna show you how I made this flip book
but first a quick story about my flip
book kit which is on Kickstarter right
now I have to say one of the coolest
things when I was filming my Kickstarter
video a couple of the kids you saw in
the video that was their first time ever
making a flip book so I wasn't sure
exactly what they would think of it but
when I stopped filming they just wanted
to keep drawing it was like the best
feedback that I could get the fact that
they just wanted to keep using it like
as soon as we were done they're like how
much is this gonna cost when can we get
it when will it be out I think I'm gonna
put some and Christmas list so anyway
that was just like amazing feedback to
get feedback to get from kids who had
never done it before anyway if you
haven't seen it yet I'll put links to
the Kickstarter in the video description
and in the card above please check it
out and back the project before it ends
so basically to make this flip book I
just had to cut a tiny bit of paper off
of alternating corners of every page so
when you flip it at the corners you're
only flipping either every other page
and on one side you're just flipping the
even pages on the other side you just
flip the odd pages I got this idea from
a Japanese flip book I saw where it
showed different animation when you
flipped each corner and I thought that
was such a cool idea and then when you
flipped it in the middle the images
blended together and I had this really
neat like almost ghostly effect kind of
a flickering ghostly effect where you
know the animation on one half and the
animation on the other half and then
they were like interacting and when you
flipped it together so you can see here
that there's not there's just a subtle
height difference between the paper but
as you flip it your finger only grips
every other page and then of course in
the middle you can flip all the pages at
the same time
so then on my computer I took the words
Yanni and Laurel and I printed out each
word the same size as my flip book paper
and then from that printout I traced it
to make a template on using a couple of
my cards on each each page I was using I
was putting that underneath each page
and using it for my template so my idea
was to have the words kind of fade in
from one side to the other going in
opposite directions so yeah he did in
red and would have it start from the
left and kind of fade in toward the
right and then fade out and then Laurel
the opposite I was gonna I'm gonna do
that and blue and I'll have it like fade
in from the right going left and then
fade out and the words will kind of
cross over each other from start to
finish this whole thing probably took
around 2 hours and 45 minutes and for
such a short video that was a lot of
footage to deal with I really need to
set up an actual time lapse instead of
just speeding up the video so I think
I'll do that next time I'm using my
Copic Sketch markers I started at first
with the chisel tip but then I switched
to the brush because it was just faster
and easier so I didn't calculate exactly
how far to move the color each page it
just kind of went with my gut instinct
and made it approximate and luckily it
worked out like really similar between
the two words and they matched up pretty
well so once I got to the point where
the word was all filled in I left it
completely filled for two pages and then
I started fading it out going in that
same direction one thing I will
definitely recommend if you do this
yourself and if I were to do it again I
would do it in the opposite order in
other words I would draw the flipbook
first like each half I would draw first
and then once once I was all done
drawing and animating at that point is
when I would go back and cut all the
corners it's just easier that way to not
to not mess up the orientation of your
pages like which which which ones have
the corners cut out and the right or
left you would be fun to do more more
flip books like this I think it'd be
really fun to try something where you've
got like like a different animation
happening on each half and then getting
them to interact I've seen a few flip
books out there that are kind of similar
to that so here's each half
I thought the effect here looked pretty
good I like the way that kind of emotion
the fade looked and then I just had to
stack them up alternating every other
one and luckily all of my cuts stayed
oriented correctly and then of course I
used my binding screws to finish it all
up I thought I thought it worked pretty
well if you guys try anything like this
I'd love to see what you make thanks for
watching don't forget if you want to get
my kit go check it out before the
Kickstarter ends links and info in the
video description as always thanks for
watching stay creative and I'll see you
guys in the next one
[Music]